[PL-Doc] User Impersonation (#10209)
harness/developer-hub: docs/platform/role-based-access-control/user-impersonation.md

helpdocs_is_published: true
---

:::note
    This feature is currently behind the `PL_ENABLE_USER_IMPERSONATION` feature flag and is only available to users with the Account Admin role. Contact [Harness Support](support@harness.io) to enable the feature.
:::

User Impersonation allows administrators to temporarily access and act as another user, including other admins without needing their password. This feature is especially useful for troubleshooting, and verifying permissions across environments.

By impersonating a user, admins can see exactly what that user sees and perform actions on their behalf, ensuring a more accurate and efficient support or testing process. 

### How to Impersonate a User

1. Navigate to **Account Settings**, **Access Control** and select **Users**.

2. Check for a user you want to impersonate, click on the vertical Ellipsis icon on the right, and select **Impersonate user**.

    ![impersonate-user](./static/user-impersonate-option.png)

3. For each impersonation session, you must provide a valid reason. Once entered, click **Start Impersonation** to begin the session.   

    ![impersonate-reason](./static/reason-impersonate.png)

> 4. The session begins with a banner displayed at the top of the page. It lasts for 30 minutes, during which you'll have the same access as the user being impersonated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. The impersonation session lasts 30 minutes. A banner at the top of the screen shows the remaining time for the session.
```

    ![impersonate-popup](./static/session-popup.png)

5. To end the impersonation session, click **End Session**. If no action is taken, the session will automatically expire after 30 minutes.

6. When the session ends, a prompt appears giving you the option to either **Restart Session** or **Quit**.

    ![end-impersonate-session](./static/end-impersonate.png)

### Impersonation Session Logs

> 

Reviewer: Add one more point here:

- The "Start impersonation" audit event is triggered at the beginning of an impersonation session, while the "End impersonation" audit event occurs when the session concludes or times out. 
- Next point

Author: Added.

All impersonation activities are recorded in the Audit Trail. To view them, go to **Account Settings** > **Security and Governance** > **Audit Trail**. 

The Action column shows the activity, while the User column indicates who was impersonated and by whom.

    ![audit-trail](./static/audit-trail.png)

:::info Important Note    

    **The following actions are disabled during an impersonation session to ensure security and control:**

    - You cannot impersonate yourself.  
    - Signing out, switching accounts, and changing passwords are not allowed.  
    - Creating, editing, or deleting Personal Access Tokens (PATs) is disabled.  

>     - Managing Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) is also restricted.

Author: Added

5. To end the impersonation session midway, click **End Session**. 

6. When the session ends, a prompt appears giving you the option to either **Restart Session** or **Quit**.

    ![end-impersonate-session](./static/end-impersonate.png)

### Impersonation session audit events

The "Start impersonation" audit event is triggered at the beginning of an impersonation session, while the "End impersonation" audit event occurs when the session concludes or times out.

All audit events fired during the impersonation session are tagged with the impersonator and impersonated user details. These can be viewed in the [Audit Trail](/docs/platform/governance/audit-trail/) page. 

The Action column shows the activity, while the User column indicates who was impersonated and by whom.

    ![audit-trail](./static/audit-trail.png)

:::info Important Note    

    The impersonation option is only available under Account Settings > Access Control >  Users. It is not accessible from the Users page at the Organization or Project level. 

    **The following actions are disabled during an impersonation session to ensure security and control:**
    
    - You cannot impersonate yourself.  

>     - Signing out, switching accounts, and changing passwords are not allowed.  

Reviewer 2: Changing default account  and view all impersonated user's account is also disabled.

Author: @meenakshi-harness this as been updated

---
title: User Impersonation
description: Learn how to impersonate a user and perform actions on their behalf.
sidebar_position: 60
helpdocs_topic_id: hyoe7qcaz6
helpdocs_category_id: w4rzhnf27d
helpdocs_is_private: false
helpdocs_is_published: true
---

:::note Feature Flag details
    This feature is currently behind the `PL_ENABLE_USER_IMPERSONATION` feature flag. Contact [Harness Support](mailto:support@harness.io) to enable the feature.
:::

User Impersonation allows account administrators to temporarily act as another user in the account, including other admins without needing their password. This feature is especially useful for troubleshooting, and verifying permissions across environments.

By impersonating a user, admins can see exactly what that user sees and perform actions on their behalf, ensuring a more accurate and efficient support or testing process. 

### Prerequisite

- A user must have the Account Admin role to impersonate other users.

### How to Impersonate a User

1. Navigate to **Account Settings**, **Access Control** and select **Users**.

> 2. Check for a user you want to impersonate, click on the vertical Ellipsis icon on the right, and select **Impersonate user**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. For the user you want to impersonate, click the vertical ellipsis icon (:) on the right, and select **Impersonate User**.
```

    ![impersonate-user](./static/user-impersonate-option.png)

3. For each impersonation session, you must provide a valid reason. Once entered, click **Start Impersonation** to begin the session.   

    ![impersonate-reason](./static/reason-impersonate.png)

4. The impersonation session lasts 30 minutes. A banner at the top of the screen shows the remaining time for the session.

    ![impersonate-popup](./static/session-popup.png)

> 5. To end the impersonation session midway, click **End Session**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. To end the impersonation session midway, click the **End Session** button on the top banner. 
```

6. When the session ends, a prompt appears giving you the option to either **Restart Session** or **Quit**.

    ![end-impersonate-session](./static/end-impersonate.png)

### Impersonation session audit events

The "Start impersonation" audit event is triggered at the beginning of an impersonation session, while the "End impersonation" audit event occurs when the session concludes or times out.

All audit events fired during the impersonation session are tagged with the impersonator and impersonated user details. These can be viewed in the [Audit Trail](/docs/platform/governance/audit-trail/) page. 

The Action column shows the activity, while the User column indicates who was impersonated and by whom.

    ![audit-trail](./static/audit-trail.png)

:::info Important Note    

>     The impersonation option is only available under Account Settings > Access Control >  Users. It is not accessible from the Users page at the Organization or Project level. 

Reviewer: @ivikramsahu please use bullets and sub-bullets to make the pointers easy to follow.

Reviewer: @ivikramsahu ^^

Author: updated.

>     **The following actions are disabled during an impersonation session to ensure security and control:**

Reviewer: This does not need to be kept in bold.

Reviewer: @ivikramsahu ^^

Author: update.

    
    - You cannot impersonate yourself.  

>     - Account-related actions such as signing out, switching accounts, changing the default account, or resetting passwords are disabled.

Reviewer: We do need to reiterate again in every point that an action or set of actions are disabled. We have mentioned it already in the main point above. Please clean up for all points.

Reviewer: @ivikramsahu ^^

Author: updated.
